README.md, before:

# Pizza PY


Pizza PY is a pizza restaurant for sit-down eat-in pizza. It is located in the fictional town of Boroughingham. It's website hopes to target local people who love to eat pizza or love to treat themselves to a meal out. It's main goal is to entice customers to come and eat at the restaurant. Both the restaurant and the site will be welcoming to families and individuals alike. 

The site will be useful to see where the restaurant is and the full menu, as well as being able to make reservations and contact the restaurant.


![Responsive Mockup](https://github.com/lucyrush/readme-template/blob/master/media/love_running_mockup.png)


## Features

### Existing Features

 __Navigation Bar__
 
- Featured on all 5 pages, the fully responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Menu, Gallery, Contact, and Reservation page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
- This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.
- This section features our logo and utilises the brand colours to create a uniform and cohesive website.


![Nav Bar](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/navbar-desktop.png)
![Nav Bar](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/navbar-mobile.png)

  
-  __The landing page image__

- The landing includes a photograph with text overlay to allow the user to see the name of the site and an image of the pizzas available.

- This section introduces the user to Pizza Py with an eye catching image to grab their attention.

- The image features the branding colours to pull together the landing page.

![Landing Page](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/hero-image.png)

  
-  __Promotion Banner__

- The promotion banner will feature this months promotion for customers to see. 
- 
- It will be seperated from the rest of the page with a green background so visitors to the site will be able to read it immediately and be enticed to visit the restaurant.   

![Promo Banner](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/promo-banner.png)

  

-  __About us Section__

- This section will tell the visitor who we are. It will include our history and ethos and allow visitors to see what the restaurant is about. 

- The about section has a yellow background to differentiate it from the rest of the home page. 

![About Us](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/aboutus.png)



-  __Links__

- This landing page features two prominent links, one to the reservation page and one to the menu page. These are clearly signposted to drive traffic to action (booking a table or looking at the menu).

- The links both feature headings and buttons, styled according to our brand's colours and font styles. 


![Booking Link](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/booking-link.png)
![Menu Link](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/menu-link.png)



-  __Food Info Section__

- This section will tell the visitor about the food we serve. It is filled with evocative language to entice the visitor to want to visit the restaurant. 

- This section features a round image, as well as emoticons, to capture the readers attention. 

![Food Info](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/food-info.png)



-  __The Footer__

  

- The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Pizza PY. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.

- The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media.

- The footer will include breif contact details such as address and phone number for easy access to the key information of the restaurant. This will stop visitors from leaving the site to search for this information.

![Footer](https://github.com/lucyrush/readme-template/blob/master/media/love_running_footer.png)

  

-  __Gallery Page__

- The gallery will provide the user with supporting images to see what the restaurant and menu look like.

- This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to see if this is somewhere suitable for their meal time plans.

  

![Gallery](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/Gallery.png)

  
  - __Menu Page__
  - The menu page will display the menu for the restaurant with a selection of Pizza's and Drinks.
  - The menu will be designed to keep in theme with the rest of the site and be appealing to customers.

  ![Menu](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/Menu.png)


-  __The Reservation Page__

  

- This page will allow customers to select a date, time and party size and be able to let them reserve their timeslot.

- This section is important to the customer as it allows them to book in advance.

__The Contact Us Page__

-This page will allow customers to leave a comment or review.

-This page will have our full contact details including a map of our location.

  

![Sign Up](https://github.com/lucyrush/readme-template/blob/master/media/love_running_signup.png)

  

## UX

### Site Goals

The Pizza PY website is designed to promote the Pizza PY restaurant, a family-run Italian restaurant specializing in pizzas. 
The intention of the site is for visitors to book a table after viewing the food and the menu. This converts visitors into customers/patrons
for the restaurant.

### Design Choices

For the purpose of our Italian restaurant's website, we chose pizza themed colours. This included green, red, and yellow, as well as a dark 
grey and an off-white to complement. We chose these colours for continuity between the images featured in the gallery and the branding of the site. 
The images used were also taken from photographers around the world, rather than being made with AI, to better show the pizza topic.

![Colour Palette](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-restaurant/pizzapy-palette.png)

### Wire Frames

Our wireframes were created at the beginning of the project and worked as the basis for the rest of our site. 

Entire site:
![Wireframe 1](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-restaurant.png)

Home page: 
![Wireframe 2](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-homepage.png)

### User Stories

- As a customer, I want to make a reservation to dine at the restaurant.
- As a customer, I want to see the menu to prepare myself.
- As a customer, I want to see images of the food to decide what I want to eat.
- As a customer, I want to see social media links to follow the restaurant.
- As a customer, I want to see the restaurant's contact details to be able to phone.
- As a customer, I want to be able to leave a review to have my opinion known.
- As a customer, I want to see the restaurant's address easily to be able to get there. 
- As a site owner, I want the website to be visually appealing and align with the brand to create confidence and familiarity.
- As a site owner, I want the website to be easy to navigate for visitors.
- DEV - complete Readme.md file with relevant project information
- DEV - add accessibility for blind viewers/screen readers.
- DEV - deploy site to public git hosting.
- DEV - test website.

### Testing





### Features Left to Implement

As a team, we brainstormed future ideas to implement if we had more time:

- Allergen information available for the menu items. 
- Interactive booking system available with open dates and times.
- Ability to order takeaway online, and delivery options/tracking.
- Review page
- Links to review sites to push confidence in the business and brand.

  

### Validator Testing

  - HTML

- No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/menu validation.png) (https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/gallery validation.png)

- CSS

- No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

  

### Unfixed Bugs

  

You will need to mention unfixed bugs and why they were not fixed. This section should include shortcomings of the frameworks or technologies used. Although time can be a big variable to consider, paucity of time and difficulty understanding implementation is not a valid reason to leave bugs unfixed.

  

## Deployment

- The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab

- From the source section drop-down menu, select the Main Branch

- Once the main branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

  

The live link can be found here - https://alexcurnow96.github.io/pizza-py/

  
## Credits

### Content

- We used the Love Running readme.md as a template. (https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/readme-template)

- The icons in the footer and home page were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

- Instructions on how to create a top banner was taken from [How To Create A Top Banner FOr Websites - HTML & CSS Tutorial For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-LVUk2IxDU)

- PerplexityAI was used to create the majority of the text on index.html. It used a variety of sources from across the web to write the text, including giuseppesplace, panevino, and artigianidelcibo.

- Menu Image template created by https://www.wepik.com
  

### Media

The images used for the home page and gallery page were taken from https://pexels.com

The list of images and artist are as follows:

- Photo by Eneida Nieves: https://www.pexels.com/photo/baked-pizza-on-pizza-peel-in-oven-905847/

- Photo by Max Avans: https://www.pexels.com/photo/person-preparing-pizza-on-kitchen-counter-5056625/

- Photo by Athena Sandrini: https://www.pexels.com/photo/green-haired-woman-eating-pizza-2323183/

- Photo by Jonathan Hidalgo : https://www.pexels.com/photo/four-different-pizzas-on-the-table-19130144/

- Photo by Rene Strgar: https://www.pexels.com/photo/pizza-served-in-a-restaurant-22797802/

- Photo by Jonathan Hidalgo : https://www.pexels.com/photo/top-view-of-pizzas-with-different-toppings-19130050/

- Photo by Jorge Fakhouri Filho: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-woman-looking-at-pizza-2531110/

- Photo by Rene Strgar: https://www.pexels.com/photo/a-pizza-taken-from-an-oven-13946695/

- Photo by Anna Shvets: https://www.pexels.com/photo/woman-eating-pizza-sitting-by-restaurant-window-5953591/

- Photo by Marcus Herzberg: https://www.pexels.com/photo/group-of-people-gathering-inside-bar-1058277/

- Photo by Igor Starkov: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-cafe-interior-1307698/

- Photo by Narda Yescas: https://www.pexels.com/photo/shallow-focus-photography-of-several-pizzas-1566837/

- Photo by cottonbro studio: https://www.pexels.com/photo/person-holding-sliced-of-pizza-4004465/

  

## Other General Project Advice

  Thanks to the other teams, the team leads, and our ever amazing leader, Amy. This project couldn't have been completed without all of that support.

Commit message:

DOC - Added information to the README.md file BUG - fixed link to reservation.html on home page

README.md, after:

# Pizza PY


Pizza PY is a pizza restaurant for sit-down eat-in pizza. It is located in the fictional town of Boroughingham. It's website hopes to target local people who love to eat pizza or love to treat themselves to a meal out. It's main goal is to entice customers to come and eat at the restaurant. Both the restaurant and the site will be welcoming to families and individuals alike. 

The site will be useful to see where the restaurant is and the full menu, as well as being able to make reservations and contact the restaurant.


![Responsive Mockup](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/amiresponsivepy.png)


## Features

### Existing Features

 __Navigation Bar__
 
- Featured on all 5 pages, the fully responsive navigation bar includes links to the Logo, Menu, Gallery, Contact, and Reservation page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
- This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.
- This section features our logo and utilises the brand colours to create a uniform and cohesive website.


![Nav Bar](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/navbar-desktop.png)
![Nav Bar](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/navbar-mobile.png)

  
-  __The landing page image__

- The landing includes a photograph with text overlay to allow the user to see the name of the site and an image of the pizzas available.

- This section introduces the user to Pizza Py with an eye catching image to grab their attention.

- The image features the branding colours to pull together the landing page.

![Landing Page](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/hero-image.png)

  
-  __Promotion Banner__

- The promotion banner will feature this months promotion for customers to see. 
- 
- It will be seperated from the rest of the page with a green background so visitors to the site will be able to read it immediately and be enticed to visit the restaurant.   

![Promo Banner](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/promo-banner.png)

  

-  __About us Section__

- This section will tell the visitor who we are. It will include our history and ethos and allow visitors to see what the restaurant is about. 

- The about section has a yellow background to differentiate it from the rest of the home page. 

![About Us](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/aboutus.png)



-  __Links__

- This landing page features two prominent links, one to the reservation page and one to the menu page. These are clearly signposted to drive traffic to action (booking a table or looking at the menu).

- The links both feature headings and buttons, styled according to our brand's colours and font styles. 


![Booking Link](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/booking-link.png)
![Menu Link](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/menu-link.png)



-  __Food Info Section__

- This section will tell the visitor about the food we serve. It is filled with evocative language to entice the visitor to want to visit the restaurant. 

- This section features a round image, as well as emoticons, to capture the readers attention. 

![Food Info](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/food-info.png)



-  __The Footer__ 

- The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Pizza PY. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user.

- The footer is valuable to the user as it encourages them to keep connected via social media.

- The footer will include breif contact details such as address and phone number for easy access to the key information of the restaurant. This will stop visitors from leaving the site to search for this information.

![Footer](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/footer.png)


  

-  __Gallery Page__

- The gallery will provide the user with supporting images to see what the restaurant and menu look like.

- This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to see if this is somewhere suitable for their meal time plans.

![Gallery](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/Gallery.png)



  - __Menu Page__

  - The menu page will display the menu for the restaurant with a selection of Pizza's and Drinks.

  - The menu will be designed to keep in theme with the rest of the site and be appealing to customers.

  ![Menu](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/Menu.png)


-  __The Reservation Page__

- This page will allow customers to select a date, time and party size and be able to let them reserve their timeslot.

- This section is important to the customer as it allows them to book in advance.

![Menu](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/reservation.png)


__The Contact Us Page__

-This page will allow customers to leave a comment or review.

-This page will have our full contact details including a map of our location.

![Menu](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/contact.png)


## UX

### Site Goals

The Pizza PY website is designed to promote the Pizza PY restaurant, a family-run Italian restaurant specializing in pizzas. 
The intention of the site is for visitors to book a table after viewing the food and the menu. This converts visitors into customers/patrons
for the restaurant.

### Design Choices

For the purpose of our Italian restaurant's website, we chose pizza themed colours. This included green, red, and yellow, as well as a dark 
grey and an off-white to complement. We chose these colours for continuity between the images featured in the gallery and the branding of the site. 
The images used were also taken from photographers around the world, rather than being made with AI, to better show the pizza topic.

![Colour Palette](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-restaurant/pizzapy-palette.png)

### Wire Frames

Our wireframes were created at the beginning of the project and worked as the basis for the rest of our site. 

Entire site:
![Wireframe 1](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-restaurant.png)

Home page: 
![Wireframe 2](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/pizza-homepage.png)

### User Stories

- As a customer, I want to make a reservation to dine at the restaurant.
- As a customer, I want to see the menu to prepare myself.
- As a customer, I want to see images of the food to decide what I want to eat.
- As a customer, I want to see social media links to follow the restaurant.
- As a customer, I want to see the restaurant's contact details to be able to phone.
- As a customer, I want to be able to leave a review to have my opinion known.
- As a customer, I want to see the restaurant's address easily to be able to get there. 
- As a site owner, I want the website to be visually appealing and align with the brand to create confidence and familiarity.
- As a site owner, I want the website to be easy to navigate for visitors.
- DEV - complete Readme.md file with relevant project information
- DEV - add accessibility for blind viewers/screen readers.
- DEV - deploy site to public git hosting.
- DEV - test website.

### Testing





### Features Left to Implement

As a team, we brainstormed future ideas to implement if we had more time:

- Allergen information available for the menu items. 
- Interactive booking system available with open dates and times.
- Ability to order takeaway online, and delivery options/tracking.
- Review page
- Links to review sites to push confidence in the business and brand.

  

### Validator Testing

  - HTML

- No errors were returned when passing through the official [W3C validator](https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/menu validation.png) (https://github.com/alexcurnow96/pizza-py/blob/main/README/gallery validation.png)

- CSS

- No errors were found when passing through the official [(Jigsaw) validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=https%3A%2F%2Fvalidator.w3.org%2Fnu%2F%3Fdoc%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fcode-institute-org.github.io%252Flove-running-2.0%252Findex.html&profile=css3svg&usermedium=all&warning=1&vextwarning=&lang=en#css)

  

### Unfixed Bugs

- Downloadable menu in footer has not been linked. 

  

## Deployment

The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab

- From the source section drop-down menu, select the Main Branch

- Once the main branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

  

The live link can be found here - https://alexcurnow96.github.io/pizza-py/

  
## Credits

### Content

- We used the Love Running project as a template. (https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/love-running-v3)

- We used the Love Rosie project as a template. (https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/resume-miniproject-bootstrap4/)

- The icons in the footer and home page were taken from [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

- Instructions on how to create a top banner was taken from [How To Create A Top Banner For Websites - HTML & CSS Tutorial For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-LVUk2IxDU)

- PerplexityAI was used to create the majority of the text on index.html. It used a variety of sources from across the web to write the text, including giuseppesplace, panevino, and artigianidelcibo.

- Menu Image template created by https://www.wepik.com

- The colour palette used for our site was generated by https://coolors.co

- The fonts for our site were chosen from https://fonts.google.com/

- Any Bootstrap elements were found on the official Bootstrap documentation https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/getting-started/introduction/
  

### Media

The images used for the home page and gallery page were taken from https://pexels.com

The list of images and artist are as follows:

- Photo by Eneida Nieves: https://www.pexels.com/photo/baked-pizza-on-pizza-peel-in-oven-905847/

- Photo by Max Avans: https://www.pexels.com/photo/person-preparing-pizza-on-kitchen-counter-5056625/

- Photo by Athena Sandrini: https://www.pexels.com/photo/green-haired-woman-eating-pizza-2323183/

- Photo by Jonathan Hidalgo : https://www.pexels.com/photo/four-different-pizzas-on-the-table-19130144/

- Photo by Rene Strgar: https://www.pexels.com/photo/pizza-served-in-a-restaurant-22797802/

- Photo by Jonathan Hidalgo : https://www.pexels.com/photo/top-view-of-pizzas-with-different-toppings-19130050/

- Photo by Jorge Fakhouri Filho: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-woman-looking-at-pizza-2531110/

- Photo by Rene Strgar: https://www.pexels.com/photo/a-pizza-taken-from-an-oven-13946695/

- Photo by Anna Shvets: https://www.pexels.com/photo/woman-eating-pizza-sitting-by-restaurant-window-5953591/

- Photo by Marcus Herzberg: https://www.pexels.com/photo/group-of-people-gathering-inside-bar-1058277/

- Photo by Igor Starkov: https://www.pexels.com/photo/photo-of-cafe-interior-1307698/

- Photo by Narda Yescas: https://www.pexels.com/photo/shallow-focus-photography-of-several-pizzas-1566837/

- Photo by cottonbro studio: https://www.pexels.com/photo/person-holding-sliced-of-pizza-4004465/

The logo was created by https://www.logoAI.com

The map on the Contact.html page was taken from https://www.google.co.uk/maps

## Other General Project Advice

  Thanks to the other teams, the team leads, and our ever amazing leader, Amy. This project couldn't have been completed without all of your support.
